# Project Proposal
## Truck and Rail Freight Corridors and their Effects in Los Angeles County

Our project seeks to explore the relationship between freight corridors, specifically truck and rail, and environmental, social, and health outcomes in the communities surrounding them. Considering the simultaneously skyrocketing consumer demand that will likely increase the potential burden of freight operations on Southern California’s key trade corridors, goods movement is a pressing issue at the city, regional, and state levels. The rising prominence of California as the host of the two busiest U.S. ports, as well as some of the most significant trade activity in the country, will continue to force the question of how to balance the state’s economic interests with the negative externalities brought on by the goods movement industry. City and regional logistics contribute to Southern California’s severe traffic congestion and air pollution yet serve a critical role in delivering essential goods and services, whether life-saving vaccines or emergency supplies after natural disasters. Freight traffic adds additional burdens to already overburdened communities by increasing exposure to air pollution and increasing the health risks. Historically, planning policies re-directed freight routes to pass through disadvantaged communities, culminating into a massive environmental and social justice issue in the LA region. 

The scope for this project encompasses LA county, one of the largest ports of entry for freight in the United States. Southern California in particular had a history of redlining which placed many communities of color directly in the path of dangerous land-uses such as freight corridors. The results of this project will partly identify if those communities must still grapple with the consequence of those historical decisions.
Using [CalenviroScreen](https://oehha.ca.gov/calenviroscreen/report/calenviroscreen-40) we will be able to gather census tract level data on emissions (ozone, PM 2.5, Diesel Emissions) and health outcomes (rates of asthma). Using Census data from [social explorer](https://www.socialexplorer.com/explore-tables) we would also like to analyze the interactions of economic factors, race/ethnicity factors, disability status, housing status, and other census-gathered information with the presence of freight corridors. Locations of important truck freight routes found in the [Primary Highway Freight System](https://usdot.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=c4c0fdef029a4093b169e493e1883988) as provided by the FHWA. 

This analysis intends to discover any links between the presence of a cargo rail or trucking corridor near a census tract and negative outcomes for that census tract. Additionally, the project will observe differences in negative externalities found between rail and trucking modes. Our final deliverable will include a regression analysis of the relationship between cargo corridors as well as maps overlaying cargo corridors and economic, health, and social factors within census tracts. We expect to gain a clearer understanding of the relationship between freight routes and the negative externalities imposed on neighborhoods adjacent to these areas, particularly on disadvantaged groups. Due to the significant lack of data relating freight to impacts like air pollution (as a greater level of research is in the context of port-source pollution), this research will flesh out an existing gap in the research. 

